Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> All right, welcome back to the Blose
podcast. This is your daily dose of
God's word transforming you to fulfill
God's purpose for your life. We're
looking at healing in the newness of
life. And we have begun to see a couple
of things on that. You recall that we
got to this teaching on the newness of
life because we realize to fulfill God's
purpose for our life, we must grow. And
that growth happens on our mind
particularly with the Eden man. But we
needed to understand what we are to grow
in. And then we arrived at that
conclusion via the teachings and
explanations we saw from Paul, Ephesians
4 and then across the scripture as well.
You know that we are to grow in the
realities of the newness of life. So if
the question is asked what are we to
grow in then the answer will be we are
to grow in the realities of the newness
of life. Okay. We could say that cuts
across who we are, what we have, where
we are. We could also say it cuts across
the external and internal realities of
the newness newness of life. So, and
that's what led us to our study
presently. So, we're looking at healing
in the newness of life. And um we'll
just go to Romans 6:4 again. Then um do
the demarcation we have been making
about what is available today in the
newness of life and make that connection
we already began to make with healing as
present and available in the newness of
life today. Then before we come back to
seeing how we walk in that reality. Now
in Romans 6:4 Paul says therefore we
were buried with him through baptism
into death that just as Christ was
raised from the dead by the glory of the
father even so we should walk in the
newness of life. So there is this sense
it gives us that what Christ has done is
not only freedom or deliverance from sin
in in terms of our status we are no
longer slaves of sin also we are no
longer okay let me put it that in terms
of our yeah he has not only dealt with
the consequences let's put it that way
of sin you know the judgment or the
consequence of sin that second death he
has also radically changed our reality
he has brought us into a new reality the
newness of life and we are brought to
that reality so that we can walk in it.
So being in that reality is not an
automatic um pass that you are going to
walk in it and that is applicable to our
character as well which is the direct
context of what Paul is saying. Um he
says oh yes you guys have been freed
from the consequence of sin and death
and we boast in this grace that we have
but our freedom from the consequence of
sin it's final judgment if if you may
describe it that way eternal death or
second death is not all Christ did you
know what he did is the restoration of
us back into God's purpose you know and
that is bringing us into this life that
God offered us from the very start as
described in Genesis 2 as the tree of
life. So he brought us into this life
with the intention that we are going to
walk in it. So it's one thing that we
are in this life is another that we walk
in it. Okay. It's also one thing that we
in this life and it's another that we
know the realities that are available to
us in this life. And for that reason we
study the newness of life and we saw
that the life that Christ brought for us
now as originally intended by God in his
purpose is the life of the age to come.
That is we can see the realities of that
life extending to the material world,
the cosmos. We can see it extending to
our bodies. We can see it extending to
our nature, our character, you know, our
our life as a whole. But then even
though this life extends this far upon
the redemption Christ has done, what is
available to us today? Because there's
no doubt that anyone who believes the
gospel reckons that in the age to come
where we we enter into eternal life in
its full effect there will be no more
this and no more that. But today
conceiving of what is available and
possible is a challenge and we must
therefore ask questions about it. What
is available to us today? Is it only a
change of our nature for our character?
Is there more that is available in the
newness of life that Christ has brought
us into? Now in examining that we have
been looking at 2 Timothy 1 and verse 9
which is trying to draw the boundaries
of what we have in the newness of life
today.
In 2 Timothy 1:9 Paul speaking it says
God has saved us and called us with a
holy calling not according to our works
but according to his own purpose and
grace which was given to us in Christ
Jesus before time began. Now that's all
good and fine has called us to a holy
calling with a holy calling
um according to his purpose. So what he
called us to by redemption is you know
what his purpose is about is based on
his purpose and also based on the grace
that he has done in the redemption
accomplished in Christ. Now but then
verse 10 says but has now been revealed.
So what he has planned has now been
revealed by the appearing of our Lord of
our Savior Jesus Christ who has
abolished death. Now see this and has
brought life and immortality to light
through the gospel. So what we were
expecting is now visible. It has been
brought to light. So it was spoken of
without it reality. It says is now
visible. He has brought life and
immortality to light through the gospel.
But then of course it says he has
brought life and immortality to light. a
word that arguably is more for
incorruption but it's um includes in
itself um immortality because we are
speaking of immortality we're talking
about
humans as um not dying you know they are
in this case where they are not liable
to death they are not mortal but if
we're saying incorruption we're talking
about the entire cosmos including humans
as well so he says the Lord Jesus has
brought life and immortal mortality to
light through the gospel. He has brought
immortality to light through the gospel.
But obviously for everyone that has
received the gospel including Paul, it's
quite clear to us that we can still see
physical death. And we have not yet seen
immortality except in the person of the
Lord Jesus Christ himself. And there's a
reason for that. We are told in 1
Corinthians chapter 15 that there's an
order to the effecting of what
redemption has accomplished. So
redemption has abolished death and has
brought life. But in God's own plan,
there's an order to how the weight the
reality of his life made available is
affected. We can see that in 1
Corinthians chapter 15 and verse 21. But
since by man came death, by man also
came the resurrection of the dead. For
as in Adam all die, even so in Christ
all shall be made alive. That requires
contextual explanation because it's not
speaking automatically, but you know is
a generalized way of speaking and is
allowed in in writing. So he says, "And
each one in his own order, Christ the
first fruits."
Now you see the whole that shall be made
alive. He said afterwards those who are
Christ at his coming. So as in Adam all
die even in Christ all shall be made
alive and each one in his own order
Christ the first fruits and afterwards
those who are Christs at his coming. So
we see very clearly that despite the
fact that what Christ has done has
accomplished such great work, there's an
order to the effecting of what he has
done.
life and immortality has been fully
affected in him but has not been fully
affected in our cosmos or in other
humans who have believed and received
the gospel. Now one of the things to
help us now so at this juncture we can
say as we have done in earlier episodes
that the life we have available today
excludes immortality and incorruption.
So there's still corruption and
mortality in this world. This is why we
age you know um this is why the world
itself is aging as Hebrews 1 says etc.
But then the life he has brought would
affect
immortality in our bodies and
incorruption in the cosmos at his coming
at the end. How will it do so? This is
what I want us to pay attention to. How
will the life that he has brought effect
this? Now in the last episode we saw
Philippians chapter 3. I want us to run
back there because this will take us to
what we are seeing on healing.
Philippians 20:20.
He said, "Our citizenship is in heaven
from which we eagerly wait for the
savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who
transform our lowly bodies to be
conformed to his glorious body according
to the effect according to the working
by which he's able to subdue all things
to himself." So he says at his authority
he is the one who will transform our
lowly bodies that it may be conformed to
his glorious body according to the
working by which he's able to subdue all
things to himself. How is this working
going to happen exactly? Well, the Bible
does tell us in Romans chapter 8 and
please pay attention because when we
speak of immortality in the newness of
life, incorruption in the newness of
life and now we talk about healing which
relates with our body in the newness of
life. We need to pay attention to how
immortality itself
is a matter of our body is going to is
going to happen. Then it might give us
some um understanding of how healing
happens to our body today as well. Now
in Romans 8 and verse 11, Paul speaking
said, "If the spirit of him who raised
Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he
who raised Christ from the dead will
also give life." But the word there is
quicken. The Greek word is Zoe po. And
there are two words there. You know, we
see the Zoe word, you know, animates
life. And then um the other word po that
is to do or to make. So will would
make alive it would be the word. So it
will quicken it will give life it will
make alive your mortal body anyone is
find is giving this
immortal life to our body. So there's a
life is given to our body. So this
present mortal life would be replaced by
an immortal life at his coming. So look
at what it says. The spirit of him that
raises Christ from dead dwells in you.
He who raised Jesus Christ, he who
raised Christ from the dead rather will
give life to your mortal bodies through
his spirit that dwells in you. So he's
going to give this immortal life as it
was done
um with Christ as the first fruit. He's
going to do it to us as as well at
Christ coming. He will give life to your
mortal bodies through his spirit that
dwells in you. How is he going to do it?
Did you notice he said he's going to do
it how? Through his spirit. That is so
important. And the the cosmos itself
will benefit from that work that will be
done um to our bodies because it's at
the same time the work will be done to
the cosmos of it being swallowed up by
incorruption. So corruption will be
swallowed up by incorruption. It will be
delivered from the bondage of corruption
to the glorious liberty of the children
of God. So it is through the spirit that
he's going to give life to our mortal
bodies at his coming. He's going to give
this immortal life to our mortal bodies
at his coming, you know. So um he's
going to do that by the spirit. And we
are looking at something that will
happen at Christ coming. I want you to
also see 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and
verse 4. These are all future realities
we are looking at and not at our own
beest. They are going to be done at
Christ's own command in fulfillment of
God's plan.
Now in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and in
verse four he said we who are in this
tent and the tent is talking about is
our mortal body grown being burdened not
because we want to be unclothed. So we
don't want to become disembodied but
further clothed that mortality may be
swallowed up by life. So life is going
to immortal life right is going to take
up this mortal body mortal life that we
have is going to subsume it. Now look at
verse five. He who has prepared us for
this very thing is God who has given us
the spirit as a guarantee. So one thing
is clear it is the spirit that is going
to do this work. And what I want us to
notice is in speaking about the kingdom
as a future reality. Okay. Uh let's see
that text quickly before I proceed. We
are going to have to wrap up somewhere.
Let's see 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and
we'll go to about verse 50. Now in here
Paul is still talking about that future
reality where we enter into eternal life
in its fully effected stage. We enter
into the age to come, you know. So now
look at what he says in verse 50. Now
this I say brethren that flesh and blood
cannot inherit the kingdom of God. And
he's talking about a state where eternal
life eternal life is in full effect as
the kingdom of God being inherited. You
know, he's talking about the age to come
as the kingdom of God being inherited.
Now, there's the use of kingdom of God
as a present reality. Several texts on
that like Colossians 1:13, etc. And yet,
kingdom of God can be spoken of as a
future reality like we see here also in
Acts chapter 14. It says
flesh and blood cannot inherit the
kingdom of God nor does corruption
inherit incorruption. He calls that
kingdom incorruption.
And we are presently in a phase where
there is corruption, mortality. Now I
want us to go to Matthew and in chapter
12 we are looking at healing in the
newness of life. So this life brings
about immortality and corruption. This
life we are to enter into eventually
um and that is already available to us
presently
is called the kingdom of God. In Matthew
chapter 12, the Lord had just cast out a
demon. And he made a very important
statement in verse 28. He said, "But if
I cast out demons
by the spirit of God, surely the kingdom
of God has come upon you." I don't know
if you see this. We are just seeing that
the spirit of God is the one who will
give us immortal life. Swallowing up
this mortal life we have. He's going to
give life to our mortal body. It's going
to conform us to his glorious body. It's
the spirit of God that will do that.
That's how we are going to be said to
have in to inherit. That's how we're
going to be said to inherit the kingdom
of God to come. That is where there's
the fully effected life of God. Is the
spirit of God that will do that at the
end. But also that spirit presently we
saw with the Lord Jesus was active. He
said, "I cast out demons by the spirit
of God. Surely the kingdom of God has
come upon you." This is so important.
And we are starting to see the
connection between
um the life that the Lord has given onto
us and that will be fully affected at
the end and the presence of healing as
available in this present age. And we're
going to continue on this in the very
next episode. See you there.
>> We trust you were blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Plurose
community channel on WhatsApp and follow
us on all our social media handles at
Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.